---
layout: page
title: "Introduction"
---
# Definition of Community Detection

Community detection, commonly referred to as graph clustering or network clustering, is a task in network analysis which is used to identify groups or communities within a given network. These groups are usually characteristic of dense connections between nodes within the group, as compared to the connections of these nodes to the nodes in the rest of the network.
Community detection in a network is important and interesting because it can provide useful insights to the structural organization of a network that can be applied to many diverse real-world networks. Since there is a tremendous amount of information stored in each network, if we could detect communities in each network it would provide us with important information and allow the study of the network easier. Furthermore, it could help us improve eﬀiciency for processing and analyzing network data. For example, in social media each user is a node, and the users’ friends whom they interact with form a connection and thus become a network. Social media companies could use community detection algorithms to keep people with common friends,common interests, and background tightly connected, so they could better personalize and establish a more eﬀicient recommendation system and advertisements. By analyzing the existence of communities, we can also learn about the processes of how a network is spreading in various settings. Another useful and important application of community detection is the prediction of missing links and identifying false links in a network because of errors. By applying a community detection algorithm it would allow users to assign and fix these links. There are a number of clustering algorithms which perform well but fail to make use of additional dataset or node features. We plan on exploring and evaluating the performance of different types of neural networks which make use of different features of the dataset to make predictions.